Hi let's jump straight into the code for reducing functions.
So we're going to start by writing our own reduced function but we're only going to make it work for
sequence types because we need to be able to index me to be able to pick up the first element of the
iterable.
And so we're going to use sequences but in general the reduced function that's available in Python can
work for any iterable and we'll take a look at that as well.
So let's let's say that we have a list.
So let's say 5 8 6 10 and 9 and we're going to want to do a few things with this list.
We're going to want to essentially map this list to a single value we're going to want to reduce it
to a single value and that single value might be different and might be the minimum the maximum the
sum of the product.
Things like that.
So let's take a look how we might do this.
So the first thing I'm going to do is define a function that's going to find the maximum of two values.
I could write it using a def statement.
I'm just going to write it using a lambda so it will take two values and it will say it's going to return
x if x is greater than Y else it's going to return Y.
Right.
So this function will return the maximum of x and y.
Let's try it out.
Let's a max of three come for that gives us four right.
And if we do a max of 10 coming 2 we should get 10.
All right.
So now that we have that let's go ahead and write the reduce function our own reduce function.
So I might do the following.
I might say def Max sequence.
I can type and we'll pass in some sequence.
And the first thing we're going to do is to set our result equal to the fourth element of the sequence.
Then after that we're going to iterate through we're going to say 4 x in sequence.
But now we've already handled the first element.
So we're going to start at the second element and iterate all the way to the end and we're going to
repeatedly assign something to a result and we're going to assign the maximum of the previous result
with the new value that we're iterating.
And then once we're done with that we're going to return the result.
OK so now I can call Max sequence of L and I get 10.
That is the maximum in that sequence so we've reduced the sequence down to a single value 10.
Now if we wanted to do the minimum it be very simple.
All we have to do is to create now a minimum function that's going to take in two values let's say and
the this time and we'll return a big if a is less than B else will return B.
You'll notice there was just a slight difference here.
Here we return x of X was greater than y.
Here where we turn a is less than B and all we have to do is take this same piece of code.
So I'm going to copy paste and in here instead of calling Max we're going to call men and now oh and
i guess i should redefine this to be called men.
When you rerun this definition let's go ahead and create that function.
Now we can call in sequence of help and we get five which is indeed the minimum value in this sequence.
We can do things with ADD and so on.
But before we do that you can see that the code really hasn't changed.
Right.
If we were to use who wanted to sum up everything in the sequence let's actually do it right now.
So I'm going to call this function and and I get I'm going to make it Alamdar up and all it's going
to do.
It's going to return a plus b.
OK.
So that's all that function does.
And now all I'm going to do again is just copy paste can just copy pasting every time.
Changing the name of the function.
Now I'm going to call it ad sequence and in here it's of calling men.
I'm going to call.
And here we go.
That's the function cannot control and sequence and I can pass an L and I get thirty eight which is
the sum of five plus a plus six plus ten plus nine.
So you'll notice that we're just repeating the same code over and over again and all we're doing is
just changing the function inside that is recursively or a relatively applied to the sequence.
Right.
And every time it's a function that requires two arguments.
So let's go ahead and make this a little more generic.
So let's go ahead and call it def want to call it underscore reduce.
Now we need to know what function to use inside right we need to know if we're going to use ADD or men
or what.
So we're going to have to pass that in as an argument.
So Jeff it's going to be our first parameter and then we have to pass the sequence itself.
So let's go ahead and just pass the sequence in.
And then we have to do is exactly what we did before.
So I'm actually going to copy paste again.
And the only difference here is that instead of calling a specific function I'm going to call whatever
function was passed in to this reduce function.
So now we could do this we could say reduce using max the sequence L and we get 10 which is the maximum
or we could say reduce men and all and we get the minimum in the sequence.
All we could say reduce add and we get the song.
So that's how reduce works.
Now in this case because we're using indexes we have to use a sequence type.
But really we could do this for any iterable it doesn't really matter.
Now for us our function won't work with just any iterable right if we try and do produce.
Let's say we want to find the max of some set.
Let's say one three four five.
So Max would be five.
We get an error because the set object doesn't support indexing.
Yeah it's not a sequence.
Now Python does have that reduced function built in.
It's such a common thing to do.
And that isn't the fun tools Maggio.
So let's go ahead and call it reduce and it's only phunk tools.
Madill.
So from phunk tools simple to reduce.
And now we can use it just like we used our own except it's going to work for any iterable not just
a sequence type.
So let's try it.
Let's say we want to reduce and we'll start with the sequence type that we had the max that we want
to find the maximum of a hole and there we go.
We get 10 right.
Or we can say reduce underscore and L and there we go.
We have that as well.
But of course reduce can work with any iterable.
So remember we couldn't do this over here.
I'm going to copy paste that statement but I'm going to remove the underscore.
So now we're going to use Python's builtin.
And that works just fine.
That's because Python doesn't use quite the same technique here that we're using with indexing.
It does something a little bit different and when we get to iterable in general we can look at this
example again and see how we might then write our own reduced function that supports any iterable not
just a sequence type.
So a lot of these reduced functions are actually quite common.
Like many Macs and add and so that they're actually built into Python and you can just call men of let's
say hello and that will give you the minimum of that or I could call men of the set.
One two three set.
One two three and I get one right.
We also have the max socket called the max of L that's already built in.
We even had the summer.
So there is a built in function to calculate the sum of elements in an iterable.
And again it works for iterable.
So if I do a set 1 2 3 then I get the result of the sum of the elements inside the set which is not
a sequence type.
There are a couple of other built in Reja reduction functions of Folden functions that I want to discuss.
One is called any and the other one is called all.
And we've seen that in the lecture.
So let's go ahead and do a different list.
Let's say L..
Maybe even a set this time.
Let's call it as equals.
And we're going to start with some values maybe that start with a true value.
So that's obviously going to have a boolean corresponding value.
True.
We're going to do a one which is also truthy.
And then we might do a zero and none which are both false.
So let's start with that and we can look at all all of S is going to look at all the elements in S and
it's essentially going to do an end between them.
Right.
It's essentially going to say true and 1 and 0 and none but all returns a boolean.
So really it's going to cast each of those into its boolean corresponding value and then do the ends
in between.
So all will be true if and only if every element in S is Truthy has a true truth value.
And in this case it's false because 0.
And none are false.
Now if we had another one let's just say a true one.
Let's say a string with a character that's truthy.
Now we do all of s true.
You'll see that it becomes true.
So this is the same thing as saying rule of truth and go of one and rule of the string s.
It's the same thing.
Or if we had these values over here it was the same thing as having done bool.
True.
And rule of one and rule of 0 and rule of none right.
That's essentially what's happening.
Any is very similar except it replaces the ends with ols so it will return true if and only if at least
one of the elements is truthy.
So if we do any of us well that's true because true is true.
So that's it.
It can actually stop right there.
And the same thing with the s2.
It will also return true.
Now if we have another set let's say we have false We have zero.
We have an empty string and we have none.
Then if we do any of these three will get false because none of these elements are truthy And so the
result of that or basically would be a false.
So we can do those we can right.
These two are reducing functions ourselves right.
If we realize that all we're doing here is doing a bunch of M's right.
We're taking each element and then adding them together.
So if you think about how we did let's say the sum we were taking each element and adding them together
we had a plus.
Here we're just casting them to bool and then doing an and in between so we could write the self selves
you know doing the following.
Let's go ahead and define another lambda.
And actually I'm not even going to define lambda defined.
You don't Bethlem the.
I'm not even going to define it and assign it to a variable.
I'm going to do everything in line.
Some say reduce and let's say we're going to put our lambda here now.
So land is going to take two Vaninka that's going to take a and b.
And what does it need to do.
Well it needs to look at the truth value of a and let's say now that we want to do the all.
So we're going to say and the truth value of b right.
And we're going to apply that to that set.
Let's apply to s.
First remember what was it was true 1 0 or none.
And the all returns false.
So if we do that we get in the false.
It's done exactly the same thing.
Now we could do both so the NE the NE is within or in between.
We didn't actually write it out but the NE doesn't fall in between the elements.
So it would be very simple to write it as Lamda a comma be full of pay for all of the kind again we
can apply that to.
Let's do a two as three which we know should turn out to be false.
And indeed it does so.
So that's how the reduction functions work.
So some of them are built in some are not.
For example the product is not built in.
If I have a sequence let's say let's go back and I'm just going to copy paste this one again.
I'm not going to change its definition
so let's say we want to find the sequence.
So in other words what are we trying to do here.
We're trying to calculate five times eight times six times ten times nine.
So you'll notice what are we doing between the elements we're multiplying them at each step.
So let's go ahead and
me this way so I can see that.
So all we need to do is just multiply the Edelman's repeatedly.
So what's our reduction function going to be what are we going to use as our function for our reduce
what we're just going to use the product of two values and that will give us the repeated product.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's say reduce.
And because there is no built in product function in Python there is a sum but not a product.
So let's go ahead and do a rigorous let's do the Lambda Lambda is going to take two variables in B.
So those are the two parameters and we just couldn't return a times b.
And then we're going to apply that to L and so we get that.
Now let's say that we have something a little simpler let's say one two three four and let's go ahead
and put in again.
That's actually the final.
And now we get 24 right so that's four times three times two times one.
Now what is full time three times two times one well that's just the factorial function.
So for factorial is equal to 4 times three times two times one.
So you can see that we can actually calculate a factorial using a reduction function.
We don't have to go and you know write for loops we don't have to go and write a recursive method which
we've been doing in the past remember you will write the factorial function that would call itself.
You can also do it this way.
Now how would do want to do it.
Well if we want to calculate n factorial.
Right so n factorial is going to be
n times and minus 1 times and minus 2 all the way down to 1 I'm going to write it the opposite way right
as one times two times three times dot dot dot times and right.
So this is how we want to calculate and factorial.
Now if we do a range let's say we do a range up to an SO range up to let's say 5 k.
So we actually get a range object.
Now you can try and do this range 5 element 0 OK.
So we get zero.
But range is actually a generator.
So we need if I want to see everything that's in the range I actually have to convert that maybe to
a list.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So range 0 just range.
Sorry
and you ask like sorry specify that I would go so we get 0 1 2 3 4.
So in order to calculate five factorial there's a couple of things.
One is we need to get rid of the zero we obviously don't want to multiply everything by zero because
we will always end up with zero as a result.
And we're missing the fine.
So that's pretty straightforward.
We could say range we'll start at 1 and we'll end at five plus one will end at six in the writers five
plus one to make it more clear.
And now we get one two three four five.
So now I could say well a factorial.
So that's the factorial function.
And let me start off by just applying reduce this way so reduce.
And what's our function going to be.
Well again just takes two values and it's going to be is just the product right.
We're just multiplying.
But what are we applying this to.
We're going to apply this to the range of one comma 6 right or 5 plus 1.
And that should give us 5 factorial which is 120 if you want to check that you'd have to write your
own factorial function or do something.
So we want to check that.
Let's go ahead and do it very quickly let me show you just to refresh your memory on how we would do
it using recursion for example then we would say if well return 1 if 10 is less than 2.
Else return back to our old return and enough times factorial of and minus one get we'd all return.
It's already been returned so now we can test out this function let's call factorial of 5 and we just
get 120 just as before.
So that's working fine.
So let's go ahead and then rewrite our factorial function instead of using the recursion formula here.
Let's go ahead and use this.
So we're just going to copy paste this reduce function.
We're going to return it.
And the only difference is that we're not going to hand-code this a 5.
We're going to pass it and whatever you know we passed into the factory function.
And now if we do this that works just as before.
So we would say Fact 2 or whatever.
Well not after that fact have to go.
All right.
So the last thing I want to show you is the initialiser the reduced function in Python actually has
an initializers.
And to show you how you might implement this yourself.
Let's go back to our reduced function that we wrote.
So I'll copy that and paste it down here.
And then in here I'm going to put in an extra argument so let's call this parameter initial.
And what are we going to do here.
Well we're going to say results equals initial and then instead of taking the result instead of iterating
from one we're going to add rate from zero.
In other words we get it right every element in the sequence.
Now you'll notice I'm not using index values so technically now this sequence could be used for any
iterable.
And we'll try that out and see if that works.
So now here is our reduced function.
So remember let's recall what L is L is 1 2 3 4.
Let's say that we want to do the sum of L and I want to use this reduce function.
So we're going to provided our own lambda.
I'm not going to use the built in some.
So let's go ahead and call our reduce function.
The function we're going to use for the lambda for the inner function is going to be a comma B and it's
going to return a plus b and we're going to pass in the sequence.
EL OH SORRY.
In this case I need an initial.
So I'm going to provide an initial value of zero.
And so we get 10 right.
We get one plus two plus three plus four which is 10.
If we change this initial value let's say I make it 100 then what we really are doing if you think about
it is we're just putting a hundred in front.
Look at what's happening here.
Our initial result is set to the initial value we pass in.
And so when we run this we get 110.
So that's all the initial value does.
Essentially it's kind of doing what we have here.
Now of course our reduced function should be able to walk now with anything.
So we can again.
Let's do the sum of a set.
So a comedy a plus b.
And then we'll do a set.
So let's do the set.
One two three four and I'm going to pass an initial value of 0 and we get the answer 10.
And if we do this using a hundred we get 110 as well and that's all the are functions initial does.
So it works exactly the same way.
In fact I can just copy paste and just remove the underscore and we get the same thing.
So that's the initial value in the redos function.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.